Lifecycle Methods and Event Alternative to `sessionsId` (#285)
ChainAgnostic/CAIPs: CAIPs/caip-25.md

Reviewer: Viewing

Reviewer 2: Hi

"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" written in
uppercase in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC
2119][]

### Definition

The session is proposed by a caller and the response by the respondent is used as the baseline for an ongoing session that both parties will persist.
- When a wallet responds with a success response containing a `sessionId` (an entropic [identifier][CAIP-171]), the properties and authorization scopes that make up the session are expected to be persisted and tracked over the life of the session by both parties in a discrete data store.
- When the wallet does not provide a `sessionId` in its initial response, the wallet MUST persist and track the properties and authorization scopes that make up the session. In this case, the wallet MUST implement a method [`wallet_getSession`][CAIP-286] to enable the caller to query for the current status of the session at any time.

After a session is established between wallet and caller, subsequent `wallet_createSession` calls are used to update the properties and authorization scopes of the session.

> - When a `sessionId` is returned in the initial `wallet_createSession` response, subsequent `wallet_createSession` calls MUST either contain the previously used `sessionId` (on the root of the request) in which case that session is modified, or the caller must generate a new `sessionId` and pass it with the request, in which case a new session is created and the previous session dangles in parallel (until its expiration if applicable) though maintaining concurrent sessions is discouraged (see Security Considerations).

Author: A note that I need to add definition for corner cases when say a caller calls `wallet_createSession` with an unknown `sessionId` since this is a new case as `sessionId` was never a parameter to `wallet_createSession` previously

Author: The parameter is added to the spec [here](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/285/files#diff-0864406dba09fa71f65989c7b3d779c71ee5cfc4cc39dec39c33c3eb96c8d35eR126)

## Specification

### Language

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" written in
uppercase in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC
2119][]

### Definition

The session is proposed by a caller and the response by the respondent is used as the baseline for an ongoing session between the two parties.
- When a wallet responds with a success response containing a `sessionId` (an entropic [identifier][CAIP-171]), the properties and authorization scopes that make up the session should be persisted and tracked over the life of the session by both parties in a discrete data store.

> - When the wallet does not provide a `sessionId` in its initial response, the wallet MUST persist and track the properties and authorization scopes that make up the session. The caller is not expected to persist session data. In this case, the wallet MUST implement a method [`wallet_getSession`][CAIP-307] to enable the caller to query for the current status of the session at any time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- When the wallet does not provide a `sessionId` in its initial response, the wallet MUST persist and track the properties and authorization scopes that make up the session.
The caller is not expected to persist session data or even a `sessionId`.
Note that wallets NOT returning `sessionId`s MUST implement additional methods and notifications to handle the full lifecycle of the session:
* [`wallet_getSession`][CAIP-307] to enable the caller to query for the current status of the session at any time.
* [`wallet_revokeSession`][CAIP-285] to explicitly end the session
* [`wallet_sessionChanged`][CAIP-308] to notify caller of updated session authorizations.
```

Author: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/285/commits/405c5a03d7d0386c4f3d87bcf8db8de81af6257f#diff-0864406dba09fa71f65989c7b3d779c71ee5cfc4cc39dec39c33c3eb96c8d35eR39-R44

> After a session is established between wallet and caller, subsequent `wallet_createSession` calls are used to update the properties and authorization scopes of the session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After a session is established between caller and a respondent, subsequent `wallet_createSession` calls can be used to update the properties and authorization scopes of the session if the response included a `sessionId`, or with other methods described below if not.
```

Author: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/commit/405c5a03d7d0386c4f3d87bcf8db8de81af6257f

> - When a `sessionId` is returned in the initial `wallet_createSession` response, subsequent `wallet_createSession` calls MUST either contain the previously used `sessionId` - on the root of the request - in which case that session will be modified, or the caller must generate a new `sessionId` and pass it with the request, in which case a new session is created and the previous session dangles in parallel (until its expiration, if applicable), though maintaining concurrent sessions is discouraged (see Security Considerations).

Reviewer 3: Note that in status quo, caller sending a `wallet_createSession` with NO sessionId re-initiates; a WALLET responding to request with a new sessionId (which a caller can only tell is new if they were managing the old one) is how WALLET reinitiates session.

Author: I believe we hashed this out in the meeting and I've included the `lifecycle chart` from our meeting notes: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/b9db980c335bab7c78322f25d8e39a72ba8874f4/BCP/Session%20Lifecycle%20Management.md#lifecycle-equivalence-chart

## Specification

### Language

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" written in
uppercase in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC
2119][]

> ### Definition

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Definition
```
```suggestion
### Definition

#### Session Lifecycle
```

Reviewer 3: I think this section has gotten long enough to warrant some subheadings for future anchor-links to point to :D

- When the wallet does not provide a `sessionId` in its initial response, subsequent `wallet_createSession` calls overwrite the previous singular session between caller and wallet.

When a user wishes to update the authorizations of an active session from within the wallet, the wallet should notify the caller of the changes with a [`wallet_sessionChanged`][CAIP-308] notification.

If a connection is initially established without a `sessionId` and the wallet later implements `sessionId` support, the wallet can revoke the single session and notify the caller via `wallet_sessionChanged`. When the caller seeks to re-establish the session via `wallet_createSession`, the wallet should return a `sessionId` in the response.

When a caller wishes revoke an active session, it can do so by calling [`wallet_revokeSession`][CAIP-285].
- When a `sessionId` is returned in the initial `wallet_createSession` response, the caller MUST call `wallet_revokeSession` with the supplied `sessionId` to revoke that session.

> - When the wallet does not provide a `sessionId` in its initial response, a call to `wallet_revokeSession` revokes the single active session between caller and wallet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- When the wallet does not provide a `sessionId` in its initial response, a call to `wallet_revokeSession` revokes the single active session between caller and wallet.

For more detail on the lifecycle and management of sessions with and without `sessionId`s, see the informational [CAIP-316][].
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

#### Session Data and Metadata

```

All properties of each object in `scopedProperties` MUST be interpreted by the respondent as proposals or declarations rather than as requirements.
In addition to making additional properties of or metadata about the corresponding `sessionScopes` member explicit, they can also annotate, support, or extend the negotiation of scope proposals (e.g., providing connection information about unfamiliar scopes or which accounts to expose to each).

> When there is an active session between the wallet and the caller for which the wallet assigned a `sessionId` in it's initial response, a `sessionId` parameter, it's value  the same entropic identifier returned by the wallet, should be added to the `wallet_createSession` request to update the associated session.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When there is an active session between the wallet and the caller for which the wallet assigned a `sessionId` in it's initial response, that same `sessionId` should be added to the `wallet_createSession` request to update the associated session.
```
Wording was a little confusing, we've already identified `sessionId` as being a CAIP-171 identifier, seems redundant to state again.

Author: done here:  https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/285/commits/71b77444c778d0f5a98885d14529c26ff8d9de22

All properties of each object in `scopedProperties` MUST be interpreted by the respondent as proposals or declarations rather than as requirements.
In addition to making additional properties of or metadata about the corresponding `sessionScopes` member explicit, they can also annotate, support, or extend the negotiation of scope proposals (e.g., providing connection information about unfamiliar scopes, or which accounts to expose to each).

> When there is an active session between the wallet and the caller for which the wallet assigned a `sessionId` in it's initial response, that same `sessionId` should be added to the `wallet_createSession` request to update the associated session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When there is an active session between the wallet and the caller for which the wallet assigned a `sessionId` in its initial response, that same `sessionId` should be added to the `wallet_createSession` request to update the associated session.
```
I'd say we move this down 2 paragraphs, it seems to have gotten stuck here as an artefact of editing (probably by me or merge conflicts)

> When there is an active session between the wallet and the caller for which the wallet assigned a `sessionId` in it's initial response, that same `sessionId` should be added to the `wallet_createSession` request to update the associated session.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
I'd say we move this down 2 paragraphs, it seems to have gotten stuck here as an artefact of editing (probably by me or merge conflicts)

The same absolute security posture is not expected for the metadata objects `scopedProperties` and `sessionProperties`, but caution is still recommended for such extensions:
callers and respondents alike SHOULD allow for their counterparties dropping or ignoring unfamiliar members from either.

> When a `sessionId` is returned with the initial success response, requesting applications and respondents alike are expected to manage state for the connection, including `scopedProperties` and `sessionProperties`;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a `sessionId` is returned with the initial success response, requesting applications and respondents alike are expected to manage state for the connection, including `scopedProperties` and `sessionProperties`, and that same `sessionId` should be added to the `wallet_createSession` request to update the associated session.
When no `sessionId` is included in an initial success response, a caller does not need to maintain `sessionId` state and can assume the extension methods defined in [CAIP-311][] and [CAIP-312][] are available for refreshing and updating the session directly.
See [CAIP-316][] for more on lifecycle management.
```

The same absolute security posture is not expected for the metadata objects `scopedProperties` and `sessionProperties`, but caution is still recommended for such extensions:
callers and respondents alike SHOULD allow for their counterparties dropping or ignoring unfamiliar members from either.

> When a `sessionId` is returned with the initial success response, requesting applications and respondents alike are expected to manage state for the connection, including `scopedProperties` and `sessionProperties`, and that same `sessionId` should be added to the `wallet_createSession` request to update the associated session.

Reviewer 4: This paragraph contradicts my below comment: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/285/files#r1696794060

Author: see here: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/pull/285#discussion_r1697158827

codes, etc. To minimize this risk, and to minimize the data (including
behavioral data) leaked by responses to potentially malicious CAIP-25 calls,
respondents are recommended to ignore calls

1. which the respondent explicitly does not authorize,
2. which are rejected automatically or by policy, or
3. which are rejected for unknown reasons.

> 

Author: some unnecessary formatting changes from my IDE that I'm happy to revert
